[SPE-6] Boundary vs. other software (#2626)
hashicorp/boundary: website/content/docs/overview/other-software.mdx

---
layout: docs
page_title: Boundary vs. Other Software
description: Compares Boundary to other security technologies
---

# Boundary vs. Other Software

Boundary is a software solution that provides secure remote access to infrastructure services.
It can be difficult to understand how to compare the different remote access security solutions that are available on the market.
Is one a replacement for another?
Are they complementary?
In this topic, we compare Boundary to other available security solutions.

## Introduction

The following comparisons are philosophical in nature, and are not intended to be opinionated.

> There are many possible remote access use cases, and the following solutions could have some part in your overall security strategy.

Author: I added this in response to Jairo's comment from the doc about removing the word "negative." But I'm not sure if "opinionated" is the best word. I am open to any suggestions. Thanks!

Reviewer: Perhaps just `The following comparisons are philosophical in nature, and are not intended to be oppositional.`

Author: > Perhaps just `The following comparisons are philosophical in nature, and are not intended to be oppositional.`

Nice, I like that.

Zero trust was born out of the concept that people should have only the necessary levels of access to do their jobs, and all access transactions should be authenticated and authorized based on a trusted identity.
Zero trust is not a specific solution or class of solutions, it's a design philosophy for how access to digital systems should be secured.
Embracing a zero trust mindset assists an organization in reducing their attack surface.

You can use Boundary and other HashiCorp tools such as Vault and Consul to create a zero trust access model for infrastructure endpoints in which all transactions are authenticated, authorized, and audited.
Boundary focuses on giving developers a consistent workflow for zero trust access to their infrastructure, wherever it resides.

## Boundary vs. Bastion Hosts

If you want to set up your cloud environment securely, you may choose to run all of your important workloads behind a NAT Gateway, and provision a DMZ with a set of hardened bastion servers.

Bastion host security groups are often not locked down at the network layer.
Additionally, users who log into a bastion host using SSH are typically dropped into a privileged account.

> Maintaining the security groups, network ACLs, and IAM control on the bastion host at a per-user level is nearly impossible, unless you create and maintain multiple bastion hosts per user or group.

Reviewer: ``
```suggestion
Maintaining security groups, network ACLs, and IAM controls on a bastion host at a per-user level is nearly impossible, unless you create and maintain multiple bastion hosts per user or group.
```

> IT departments now have to manage updates for another server, and the sprawl of infrastructure continues, increasing your attack surface, and requiring your IT department to be perfect.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
IT departments now have to manage updates for another server and the sprawl of infrastructure continues, increasing your attack surface, and requiring your IT department to be perfect.
```

In practice, this often means that once users log in to a network using a VPN, they have access to far more than they should.

While Boundary can establish remote connections to services within an organization's perimeter, Boundary is **not** a VPN.
Instead, Boundary proposes an improvement to the current remote access model, where remote access is granted granularly and established to specific permitted services, but **not** the entire network.
Boundary uses a non-repudiable user identity that is established by your integrated Identity Provider (IdP) of choice, as opposed to relying on network layer concepts such as IP address for access management.

A traditional VPN provides users with **network access**.
Boundary provides users with **delegated access to services within the network**.

_Can Boundary replace a VPN?_

For many organizations, Boundary's granular network access will be a security improvement from traditional data center VPN solutions that lack granular controls.

_Can Boundary work with a VPN?_

> Boundary can work with an existing corporate VPN to provide heightened security when accessing privileged networks such as data centers and cloud VPCs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Boundary can work with existing corporate VPNs to provide heightened security when accessing privileged networks such as data centers and cloud VPCs.
```
